DOCSP-24544 - Stable API page (#37)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/stable-api.txt

.. _csharp-stable-api:

==============
{+stable-api+}
==============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. note::

   The {+stable-api+} feature requires MongoDB Server 5.0 or later.

>    You should use the {+stable-api+} feature only if all the MongoDB
>    servers you're connecting to support this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You should only use the {+stable-api+} feature if all of the MongoDB
   servers you're connecting to support this feature.
```

Author: Agreed on adding "of". I put "only" where I did per [the style guide.](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#o)

Overview
--------

> 

Reviewer: Could you add an "in this guide" statement? Here is the one from Godoc:

"In this guide, you can learn how to specify **Stable API** compatibility when connecting to a MongoDB instance or replica set."

> When a MongoDB server runs an operation, it uses the version of the operation defined by
> the current *API version*. When you update either your driver or server, it changes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {+stable-api+} feature forces the server to run operations with behaviors compatible with the *API version* you specify. When you update either your driver or server, it changes 
```

Author: I was also intentionally trying something different here--starting with a "hook," generally used in training to get people to care about what they're reading, instead of jumping straight into the explanation. Maybe that's not the format we want!

The {+stable-api+} feature forces the server to run operations with behaviors compatible 
with the API version you specify. When you update either your driver or server, 
the API version changes, which can change the way these operations behave.
Using the {+stable-api+} ensures consistent responses from the server and 
provides long-term API stability for your application.

The following sections describe how you can enable and customize {+stable-api+} for

> your MongoDB client. For more information about the +stable-api+}, including a list of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your MongoDB client. For more information about the {+stable-api+}, including a list of 
```

For more information about {+stable-api+}, including a list of the commands it covers,
see the :manual:`MongoDB reference page. </reference/stable-api/>`

Enable the {+stable-api+} on a MongoDB Client
---------------------------------------------

> To enable the {+stable-api+}, you must specify an API version in the settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the {+stable-api+}, you must specify an API version in the options
```

Author: I chose "settings" because you can set the API version only in the `MongoClientSettings` object.

of your MongoDB client. Once you instantiate a ``MongoClient`` instance with
a specified API version, all commands you run with the client use that
version of the {+stable-api+}.

.. tip::

   Once you've created a ``MongoClient``, you can't change its {+stable-api+} version.  
   If you need to run commands using more than one version of the 
   {+stable-api+}, instantiate a separate client with that version.

   If you need to run commands not covered by the {+stable-api+}, make sure the
   "strict" option is disabled. See the section on
   :ref:`{+stable-api+} Options <stable-api-options>` for more information.

> The following example shows how you can instantiate a ``MongoClient`` that
> sets the {+stable-api+} version and connects to a server by performing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how you can instantiate a ``MongoClient`` with a {+stable-api+} version and connect to a server through the following steps:
```

> The following example shows how you can instantiate a ``MongoClient`` with a {+stable-api+} version and connect to a server through the following steps:
> following operations:

Reviewer: Something got a little messed up here

```suggestion
The following example shows how you can instantiate a ``MongoClient`` with a {+stable-api+} version and connect to a server through the following operations:
```

following operations:

- Construct a ``ServerApi`` instance and specify a {+stable-api+} version 

>   using a static property of the ``ServerApiVersion`` class.

Author: FWIW, I'd expect a C# dev to understand "static property" here--but I can see how it doesn't add much to the explanation.

Agreed on numbering.

- Construct a ``MongoClientSettings`` instance and set the ``ServerApi`` property.

> - Create a ``MongoClient`` and pass the ``MongoClientSettings`` object as an argument.

Author: Reworded.
